welcome back to movies explained today
we are looking at the movie oxygen the
story starts with a woman waking up in a
cryogenic pot enclosed in an organic
cocoon she tries to get the cocoon off
of her body and tries separating the
attached needles and wires she has some
flashes of being in a hospital but can't
remember anything clearly she finally
gets out of the cocoon and removes the
cerebral activity monitor from her head
she tries to get out of the box she is
trapped in but fails while she's yelling
and crying for help the machine powers
up and an automated ai informs her that
the oxygen level is 35
and there is a system failure she starts
asking the ai where she is and how she
got there the ai introduces itself and
says i am your medical interface liaison
operator milo i'm programmed to answer
all your medical needs
milo offers her a sedative seeing her
agitated state but she refuses to take
it she tries to make him get her out but
he responds i cannot comply with that
request at the moment she makes guesses
of her current situation that someone
must have done this to her upon asking
milo gives her progress report it states
that the heat levels in the processor 3
to 54 had depleted oxygen reserve which
resulted in the suspension of medical
cryogenics the woman is shocked to hear
the word cryogenics and keeps having
some flashes from her past she tries to
wrap her head around it but then makes
herself believe that i am safe and
inside a hospital the woman asks milo is
there someone who knows about my
situation to which he tells her that the
transmission failed and there is no
response from anywhere she focuses on
her breathing and keeps telling herself
that she is in a hospital and someone
will come looking for her she asks the
ai to tell her about her name and who
she is milo identifies her as omicron
she tries to get him to specify the term
a bit
milo says you are a bio-formicron 267
she then asks milo to display the image
of her bio form and looks at her face
unable to recognize who she is the
oxygen level keeps dropping and milo
suggests decreasing the consumption of
oxygen to delay asphyxiation she gets
flashes of dead mice in a lab and
herself screaming in a red room when the
woman shouts to know why she is in the
pod the ai offers her to show the
medical diagnosis of omicron 267 to
which he agrees but milo fails to
provide her with it she instructs milo
to open the door but he refuses and says
this is not recommended at this point
she initiates the unlocking of the door
but fails because she doesn't have the
authentication code she asks milo to
call someone but he tells her that all
the external communications are
currently unavailable
she asks the ai how he was able to send
the diagnosis report if the
communications are unavailable milo says
all data is transmitted via a central
data line the woman instructs milo to
make a call to the operation center but
milo tells her it is not registered in
the database the call is directed to the
first police number on the woman's
request a police officer picks the call
and she starts crying and asking for
help she tells him that the supply of
oxygen is running out and she is in a
cryogenic pod she further tells him that
she doesn't remember anything including
who she is where she is from and where
she is and starts crying the police
officer is convinced that she is filing
a false report but she continues to cry
and beg him to believe her finally he
agrees to listen to her and asks for any
details that can help him figure out
where she is she tells the officer that
the last thing she remembers was that
she was in an er the rest of it is all
blur the officer tells her it is hard to
track her call but the department is
trying the officer asks her to look
around and find some serial number or
any detail of the pod she looks to her
side and tells him the company's name
and serial number the officer transfers
the call to his superior when the
connection fails the woman requests milo
to perform a dna test and sees pictures
of her on the screen
she realizes that her name is elizabeth
hanson and people call her liz she
starts crying again when the ai directs
an incoming call to her the man on the
phone introduces himself as captain
moreau of science and technology
department the signal distorts but milo
is successful in amplifying it moreau
asks elizabeth that how much time is
left and how did the hyper sleep end she
doesn't recognize the man but due to
less time she decides to cooperate with
him moreau asks her to tell him
everything she remember including any
suspicious behavior or anything she
remembers about anyone trying to hurt
her she says she doesn't remember
anything more tells her me and my men
are trying to locate you but according
to the manufacturer of cryoselide your
unit was destroyed three years ago
liz panics and her heart rate and bp
rises moreau asks her to stay with him
and focus on reality moreau says we are
doing everything we can to locate you my
men are searching all the available
information on you and we are meeting
with the manufacturer of cryoselide to
get the codes he explains to her about
the difficulty they are facing to get
the details due to the morning time the
call drops and liz starts crying again
milo states her probability of survival
which is 0
the system tries to inject her with a
sedative due to the dropping oxygen
level but liz manages to get the
injection away from her milo reminds her
about the federal offense that is
charged when someone damages cryosalide
intentionally she starts hallucinating
things and feels herself outside
breathing air she gets a vision of leo
working in a lab she accesses the date
of elizabeth hanson through all the
press articles
she finds that she is a nobel prize
winner and is a biologist then she opens
her social media and finds pictures of
her with leo her husband she tries to
remember him and get some visions of leo
playing the piano she directs milo to
find the number of leo ferguson milo
finds two numbers the first one shows
unavailable but someone picks the call
on leo's second number the woman speaks
to liz and when liz asks her to give the
phone to leo and that she has something
urgent to tell him the call drops she
tries calling back several times but
fails the woman on the phone hangs up on
her saying don't call on this number
ever the level of oxygen drops to 21
liz gets the intravenous needles out of
her hands and feet she is trying to open
the pod when she hallucinates white mice
all over her liz reminds herself that it
is not real and is just in her head she
agrees to a sedative and manages to get
the injection off the machine she tries
to use the injection to open the pod
somehow but fails and starts panicking
more calls her again and tells her about
the subpoena he got to get the codes
from cryoselite he also gives liz the
news of getting information about her
location liz tries to tell him about the
memory flashes of her husband leo but
moreau refuses to believe her he says
you are experiencing a psychotic episode
induced due to isolation war prisoners
also experience this just try to focus
on the reality in your body she takes
the needle and tries inducing pain to
trigger her memories she remembers
sitting with leo asking him if he was
ready to try to have children leo smiles
and kisses her she then asks moreau for
how long i have been missing moreo tells
her that no one reported her missing and
she was active on social media a few
days before she asks moreau to find her
husband but moreau tells her she was not
married according to the record
available milo searches for leo ferguson
but ends up finding no results in the
database moreau tries convincing her by
saying leo was not real you are just
seeing things that don't exist
liz suspects moreau of hiding something
more tries talking to her about her
saying you played basketball in college
and you were good at it you received a
doctorate in bioengineering grants and
awards you were born in stockholm and
raised by your mother alone liz again
gets some memory flashes and adds to the
conversation saying my mother's name was
alice i remember her maro tells her that
it was not alice but isabelle he further
says you went to oxford in paris to
study liz suspects moreau of hiding
something when he delays giving her the
codes she drops the call and sees leo in
a hospital coughing moreau tries to call
her again but liz keeps on rejecting the
call she asks milo to replay the voice
recording from the last 30 seconds she
listens to the recording and hears
someone saying to mero tell her she is
seeing things and all of this is in her
head milo informs her of another
incoming call which is from the woman
who hung up on her earlier the woman
says it was not supposed to happen this
way something must have gone wrong
you must listen to me i can help you liz
continues asking about leo but the woman
refuses to tell her about him until she
confirms leo is dead liz gets the
authentication code from the woman and
is about to unlock the pod when she
decides to give 10 seconds to her to
explain herself the woman says you were
not supposed to find this out this way
and directs liz to put the centrifuge
controller on zero liz does what she
says and finds herself floating in the
pod she realizes she is in space and is
shocked the woman says we are running
out of time and you will soon be beyond
our range of communication satellites
you were placed in hyper sleep but
something interrupted it i cannot bring
you home even though i have designed the
system maybe we can put you back to
hyper sleep and give you a chance of
surviving the woman tells her that they
were planning to colonize a planet wolf
10 to 61 which is 14 light years away
from the earth she says you are the only
one left your hive transporter has not
yet engaged its nuclear-powered thrusts
you have to act fast liz is confused and
scared at the same time and demands to
know why the woman was carrying out this
mission the woman tells her about the
human race going to die after two
generations she says we can't let this
information go public or there will be
absolute chaos moreau had no choice and
he had to do what he did the woman also
tells her about the government
involvement in the matter and they were
just wasting her time until the oxygen
completely depleted liz asks her if i
was the main part of the project why not
just tell me the truth the woman tells
her as she was missing her memories
telling the truth was not an option due
to the risk involved
liz is disappointed to know that moreau
and the people were trying to keep her
from triggering her memories and were
trying to kill her the woman further
tells her leo was killed due to the
virus that killed millions of people liz
discovers that she has been in hyper
sleep for almost 12 years the woman
gives her all the instructions to get
back to hyper sleep and liz starts
following them while the woman is
explaining the process to liz the
rangers enter her place and she says to
liz you have all the answers try
triggering your memories just remember
leo she hangs up the phone and liz tries
doing what she said she gives herself
electric shock to get back her memories
and sees leo dying she has a vision of
doctors giving cpr to leo she remembers
leo saying don't worry we will meet
again
the oxygen level drops to six percent
liz asks milo to calculate the life of
omicron 267 when the oxygen will run out
milo says omicron 267 will last three
minutes after oxygen depletion liz
considers the possibility of
decompression but finds out she will
only have a few painful seconds in space
after the oxygen depletion she asks milo
to get details of other immigrants milo
tells her to specify the omicron due to
their large number of 10 000 units milo
fetches some information for liz and
tells her omicron is a lost one like 267
others she asks milo to show her omicron
42. milo removes the organic cocoon and
reveals leo's face she is relieved to
see him alive but notices the scar gone
on his forehead she suspects something
fishy and opens videos of elizabeth
hansen she realized she developed a
technique to transfer memories without
contaminating the genetic human
reproduction liz shouts and cries saying
i am a clone i have never been outside
this box i am disposable material why
did you do this to me
she asks milo to record a message for
omicron 42 she gets emotional about the
memories she had with leo she says you
made it and my time is running out now i
never got a chance to see you laugh or
breathe closer to me i just want to know
you i never got a chance to do so but
maybe we can do it over drinks she says
i can't die she tries getting into hyper
sleep milo activates euthanasia protocol
due to a non-existent chance of survival
but elizabeth's clone manages to
deactivate it and successfully diverts
the functions of the processor and is
put back in hypersleep she injects the
intravenous p1 and p2 and gets the
umbilical ring functional she puts on
the cerebral activity monitor and the
reanimation starts milo tells her that
it will take approximately 34 years for
omicron 267 to reach the planet as liz
goes to sleep the movie ends with the
clones of elizabeth hansen and leo
ferguson standing on the planet wolf
embracing each other